JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
DONALD TRUMP (R), President of
the United
States: What we want to do is
bring manufacturing
back to our country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
turns his focus
to trade and the economy after a
rocky start
to his administration.
Then:
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: If
he works with us on our values,
fine.
If he doesn't, we will oppose
him tooth and
nail.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I sit down with
Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer to talk
about where Democrats
can and can't see working with
the new president.
Plus, our Politics Monday team
take on the
Trump administration's combative
relationship
with the press.
And feeling the Trump effect
overseas -- how
right-wing movements across the
E.U. are hoping
to ride a global wave of
populism to the polls.
GEERT WILDERS, Leader, Freedom
Party (through
translator): The people will not
stop.
Whether the old-fashioned
politicians or the
friends of the press like it or
not, it will
not be stopped.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's down to
business for President
Trump, and the first order of
business today
was economic policy.
A weekend of tumult over the
size of the inaugural
crowd, record-breaking protest
marches and
news coverage, gave way today to
a focus on
trade and jobs.
John Yang spent this day at the
White House.
JOHN YANG: On his first full
workday in the
White House, President Trump
wielded the presidential
pen.
DONALD TRUMP (R), President of
the United
States: Great thing for the
American worker
that we just did.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump took three
executive
actions, formally withdrawing
the United States
from the Trans-Pacific
partnership, or TPP.
Former President Obama pushed
the 12-country
trade pact, but Congress never
voted on it.
The president also froze federal
government
hiring outside of the military,
and he revived
an on-again/off-again ban on
federal funding
for international groups
providing abortions.
But the theme of the day was
clearly meant
to be trade, business and jobs.
DONALD TRUMP: Good morning,
everybody.
MAN: Good morning, Mr.
President.
JOHN YANG: The president had
breakfast with
business executives, talking tax
and regulation
cuts.
He made clear he wants to keep
U.S. jobs from
moving overseas.
DONALD TRUMP: We are going to be
imposing
a very major border tax on the
product when
it comes in, which I think is
fair, which
is fair.
So, a company that wants to fire
all of its
people in the United States and
build some
factory someplace else and then
thinks that
that product is going to just
flow across
the border into the United
States, that's
not going to happen.
JOHN YANG: Ford CEO Mark Fields
said he was
encouraged.
MARK FIELDS, CEO, Ford Motor
Company: I come
out with a lot of confidence
that the president
is very, very serious on making
sure that
the United States economy is
going to be strong.
And I think that encourages all
of us as CEOs
as we make decisions going
forward.
DONALD TRUMP: Thank you for
being here.
JOHN YANG: Later, he met with
union workers.
DONALD TRUMP: Companies that
left are going
to come back to our country, and
they're going
to hire a lot of people.
It's inconceivable to me that
this was allowed
to happen in the first place.
JOHN YANG: White House Press
Secretary Sean
Spicer, holding his first full
White House
press briefing, said there'd be
more meetings
like those.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
I think that you're going to see
a lot more
of that, a listening president
who is engaged
and trying to figure out what
policies and
actions that he can take, that
this government
can.
That's who he is.
That's what he did during the
transition,
and I think that's what he's
going to do going
forward.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump also did
some foreign
policy work, speaking by phone
with Egyptian
President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi,
pledging to
continue U.S. military aid.
Meanwhile, ethics lawyers filed
a federal
lawsuit, charging that his
companies are violating
the Constitution by taking
payments from foreign
governments while he's in
office.
Mr. Trump brushed it aside.
DONALD TRUMP: Without merit.
Totally without merit.
JOHN YANG: The White House said
Mr. Trump
has now officially resigned from
the Trump
Organization, as he had promised
to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, you
reported on what
the Trump White House has done
this first
day.
They had been saying to the
press that they
were going to come out of the
box with one
action after another.
What more are they telling you
they have up
their sleeves this week?
JOHN YANG: Well, they say we
should look for
actions and other indications on
trade later
this week, and perhaps on
immigration, although
one thing they say we will now
not see as
an executive action will be
President Trump
undoing President Obama's
executive action
deferring action, deferring
deportation action
on undocumented immigrants who
came to this
country as minors.
They say that is now not a
priority.
The priority on undocumented
immigrants is
on people with criminal records
and those
who pose a threat.
And on those so-called dreamers,
the young
people who came as minors, they
say they want
to work with Congress for a
permanent solution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, we
know the president
also has a couple of meetings
already lined
up with foreign leaders coming
into Washington.
JOHN YANG: That's right, Friday,
his first
foreign visitor will be British
Prime Minister
Theresa May.
And then on Monday, he will
meeting with Enrique
Pena Nieto, the president of
Mexico.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, two
other quick
things.
We know the president is going
to be going
to a retreat I guess with
congressional Republicans
later in the week, but I also
want to get
your sense of how it feels
different to be
covering a Trump White House.
JOHN YANG: Well, I'll tell you,
at first transitions
always tend to be a little
chaotic and a little
messy.
In the briefing today, there was
a lot of
activity, a lot of people there,
interest.
It was jammed in the Briefing
Room for the
briefing.
It wasn't quite as crowded as it
was for President
Obama's last press conference,
but still a
lot of interest and a lot of
people wanting
to attend that first briefing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Yang
covering the White
House for us on this first full
day, workday,
for the Trump administration,
thank you, John.
In the day's other news: The
Senate Foreign
Relations Committee voted
through the nomination
of Rex Tillerson to be secretary
of state.
They voted along party lines,
and they sent
it to the full Senate.
That came after Republican Marco
Rubio of
Florida announced his support.
He'd clashed with Tillerson at
the confirmation
hearing.
Separately, the president
nominated former
U.S. Representative Heather
Wilson of New
Mexico to be secretary of the
Air Force.
She is a retired Air Force
captain.
The new president's move to rein
in Obamacare
is raising questions within his
own party.
Hours after his inauguration,
Mr. Trump ordered
federal agencies to waive or
delay parts of
the law if they impose financial
burdens on
states.
His directive gave no details.
Today, a leading Republican
senator, Susan
Collins of Maine, said it's not
clear what
that means.
SEN.
SUSAN COLLINS (R), Maine: I
think that the
executive order is very
confusing.
Until there is a secretary in
place who can
interpret the regulations or do
the rule-making
to rescind regulations, it's
very difficult
to say what the impact of the
executive order
is going to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Collins is
offering her own
legislation to replace the
Affordable Care
Act.
The death toll has reached 20
after a rare
January outbreak of tornadoes
hit the Deep
South over the weekend.
Fifteen of the victims died in
South Georgia.
Officials in one hard-hit county
made a desperate
plea today for federal help, and
complained
they're not getting any.
CHRISTOPHER COHILAS, Dougherty
County Commission
Chairman: The assistance, the
boots on the
ground, the reasons why the
federal government
exists to help in situations
like this.
We're not asking for money right
now.
We're asking for resources.
And to get caught up in the
bureaucratic red
tape at a time of this amount of
human suffering
is disgraceful.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thirty-nine
possible twisters
were reported across the
Southeast from Saturday
morning through Sunday evening.
All but nine were in Georgia.
On the Pacific Coast, a winter
storm system
is moving out of California
tonight, after
record rainfall touched off
floods.
Nearly four inches fell south of
Los Angeles
on Sunday, flooding major
roadways around
Long Beach and even washing away
cars.
Parts of the San Francisco area
also faced
flooding, and heavy snow in the
Sierra Nevada
shut down a highway.
The storm is blamed for four
deaths.
Representatives of the Syrian
government and
rebel groups sat down in
Kazakstan today for
their first peace talks in nine
months.
They traded accusations, and
there was little
sign of progress.
The negotiations, hosted by
Russia, Turkey
and Iran, are aimed at extending
a shaky cease-fire
set up just last month.
The U.S. is not directly
involved.
China's government is launching
a new crackdown
on attempts to get around its
sweeping Internet
censorship.
Beijing said today that a
14-month campaign
will aim to -- quote -- "clean
up" Internet
service providers and target
unauthorized
connections.
The goal is to bar China's 730
million Internet
users from accessing overseas
Web sites without
permission.
On Wall Street today, the Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 27 points to close
back below
19800.
The Nasdaq fell two, and the S&P
500 slipped
six.
And an upbeat report today on
the health of
former President George H.W.
Bush.
Doctors in Houston say he's
ready to leave
intensive care after being
admitted nine days
ago for pneumonia.
His wife, Barbara, was
discharged from the
same hospital today after
recovering from
bronchitis.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the highest-ranking
Democrat in the Senate, Minority
Leader Chuck
Schumer, discusses the new
president; ongoing
concerns over President Trump's
business dealings;
a combative start to the Trump
administration's
relationship with the press; and
much more.
a combative start to the Trump
administration's
relationship with the press; and
much more.
Republican control of the House
and Senate
offers President Trump an
opportunity to deliver
on many of his campaign
promises.
But Democrats plan to make that
a rocky road.
The main voice of the opposition
is Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of
New York.
We sat down at the Capitol this
afternoon.
And I began by asking him how he
would characterize
these first days of the Trump
administration.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: It's
been bumpy, to say the least.
The rollout, so to speak, at the
CIA was really
terrible, to stand on sacred
ground, people
who had given their lives for
our country,
and then to spend all his time
talking about
extraneous things that related
to himself.
You know, what he has to realize
is, he's
president, not candidate.
Instead of talking about the
numbers of people
who showed up at his
inauguration, he ought
to be talking about the number
of people he's
gotten into the middle class,
gotten good-paying
jobs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, already
this morning
and over the last few days, he
started signing
executive orders.
One of them has to do with the
Trans-Pacific
partnership, the trade pact.
There was another one on the
Affordable Care
Act.
So they are making some
statements, aren't
they?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: But some of these
mean very
little.
The TPP was dead long before he
became president.
If he wanted to do something
real on trade,
he could have done what he
promised to do
over and over again in his
campaign, call
China a currency manipulator.
He said, on the first day I'm in
office, I
will call China a currency
manipulator.
That would have done something.
On his ACA, on the Obamacare, he
said, keep
the good things, get rid of the
bad things
and obey the law.
They're so locked in a terrible
position on
ACA.
In other words, they want to
keep the good
things and repeal it, but they
don't know
how to do it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Isn't it entirely
possible,
Senator, that it could be
repealed and then
there could be no agreement on a
replacement
for months or longer?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, I think --
first, I think
they're going to have more
trouble with repeal
alone than they think.
A good number of moderate
Republicans -- Susan
Collins, who made this proposal,
I have a
lot of respect for her, even
though I don't
think her proposal is very good
-- and bunch
of others, Bob Corker, have said
don't repeal
without replacing.
But then there are a number of
people on the
hard right -- particularly in
the House, they
have a great deal of clout --
who say if you
put any new money into this,
we're not voting
for it.
Well, you can't do that in a
replacement bill,
unless you just decimate all the
good things
in the bill, the 20 million
people who have
been covered, preexisting
conditions, kids
21-26 staying on their parents'
plan and a
whole raft of other things.
So, they're sort of stuck.
They're like the dog who caught
the bus.
Very easy when they're out of
power to repeal
it, not so easy now.
So, I think the odds are at
least 50/50 that
they won't be able to accomplish
repeal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This week, there
have already
been two Cabinet nominees of
President Trump
have been approved.
There are a number of others.
You have said there are eight or
nine of them
you have problems with.
Do you think it's possible that
a couple of
them, one or two will not be
confirmed?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, that's up
to the Republicans,
because if they have no
defections, they can
pass all of these with the
changes in the
rules.
But I would say this.
We have an obligation to bring
to light who
these people are, because this
is such a unique,
in a bad way, Cabinet.
We call it the swamp Cabinet,
billionaires
and bankers.
Why?
Well, first, there are huge
conflicts of interests
with so many of these, because
they have dramatically
large financial holdings that
would lend themselves
to all kinds of conflict of
interests.
Many of them have had a great
deal of difficulty
filing what's required by law,
90-day plan
to divest.
Some have done it cleanly.
Most have not.
Many of them disagree
dramatically with the
views that President Trump or
candidate Trump
then stated.
For instant, the classic is Tom
Price.
Trump said, I will never touch
Medicare.
Price has made his whole career
on trying
to get rid of Medicare.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're not
saying he's
going to be -- not going to be
confirmed?
You're basically pointing out
that there are
some discrepancies.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, look, we
don't know what
happens.
Mulvaney, it just came out that
he didn't
pay a household employee -- the
taxes on a
household employee for four
years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think he
might not be
confirmed?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, on the very
same basis,
Republicans said Tom Daschle
wasn't fit to
be secretary of HHS.
We're not being dilatory.
First, these people have
tremendous power.
To have a few days to explore
who they are,
and maybe when the public and
some of our
Republican colleagues see all
the problems,
maybe a few of them will vote
for us and knock
out some of these nominees.
We have an obligation to bring
to light who
these people are, so the
American people see
what Trump is doing.
Here is what Trump is actually
doing.
He's talking like a populist,
his inauguration
speech, but he's governing like
a hard right-wing
guy, totally different than the
way he campaigned.
So...
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean in the
people he's
chosen?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: In the people
he's chosen.
They're the most hard-right
Cabinet we have
ever seen.
A guy like Mulvaney, who even
wants to cut
funding for cancer research?
He's to the right of the average
Republican.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Senator,
with all due
respect, it sounds like you're
saying, yes,
they have got -- it sounds like
they have
got big problems, but we may
have to be prepared
to live with them.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, we depend
on some Republicans
of conscience coming forward and
saying, this
is unacceptable.
We depend on them using the same
standard
they used against Democratic
nominees on these
Republican nominees.
We don't know the outcome yet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me move
to something
else we don't know yet, and that
is who the
president is going to nominate
for the Supreme
Court.
You have said you don't want
somebody -- you
want him to appoint someone who
is from the
mainstream, who's not off to the
far -- in
your words, to the far right.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Correct.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But your friend,
your colleague,
the majority leader, Mitch
McConnell, has
left it wide open that he might
resort to
the so-called nuclear option,
where the Republicans
could basically have their way
with 51 votes,
no matter who Mr. Trump,
President Trump,
nominates.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, look,
first, the last
two presidents have nominated
four people
to the Supreme Court, two by the
Republican
President Bush, two by the
Democratic President
Obama, and they all got
bipartisan support.
And I am hopeful, not certain at
all, that
the president will nominate
someone who could
get bipartisan support.
If not, obviously, we will
oppose them with
everything we have.
Certainly, I will.
And I would think they wouldn't
get enough
support, the 60 votes, that are
now required.
So, then the Republicans will
have to come
to that Rubicon: Do they want to
change the
rules?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me ask you
about a couple
of issues.
Infrastructure, you said you're
willing to
work with President Trump on a
plan to rebuild
the nation's infrastructure.
But we have been hearing from
his commerce
secretary-designee, Wilbur Ross,
that his
idea is about having a lot of it
financed
privately.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that something
you could
go along with?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: You won't build
many roads.
And the ones you will have such
large tolls,
that the very middle-class
people that Donald
Trump has said he wants to help
will be dramatically
hurt.
No, the only way you can do a
good infrastructure
bill is by a significant
increase in federal
spending.
I have said this to president
when he was
president-elect.
And he said, "I understand
that."
I said, you may have to break
with a lot of
your hard-right Republican
colleagues in the
House and Senate who don't like
to see the
federal government spending
money on roads,
even though that is usually what
we have done
throughout the past.
And he said, "I know."
So, we will see.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have heard
different things
from different people around
President Trump
about what they want to do about
tax cuts.
What do you think they're going
to do?
Do you have a clear idea?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Yes, I really
worry, again,
because he's governing from the
hard right,
that the overwhelming part of
their tax cuts
will go to the wealthiest of
Americans.
That's been the credo of the
hard right all
along, reduce taxes on the very
rich, and
it will trickle down.
That's not something Democrats
or most Americans
agree with.
And I don't think he would get
very much support
for tax cuts that predominantly
go to the
top 1 percent.
It would be against what he
campaigned on.
It would be a huge mistake.
That's not the way to do things.
So, middle-class tax cuts, we
would look at
them.
Closing loopholes, he has talked
about closing
the carried interest loophole.
We would be all for it and vote
for that.
So, we will see what he does.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Russia and Russia
sanctions.
Whatever is decided by Congress
in terms of
continuing or amping up
retaliatory moves
against Russia for its role in
the election,
isn't it likely that the
Republican majority
in the Senate is going to not go
along with
that; basically, that it won't
go anywhere?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, our
Republican colleagues,
their credo since the days of
Ronald Reagan
would be to be tough on Putin
and Russia,
would be to increase sanctions
if they did
this.
And I hope that they will --
John McCain and
Lindsey Graham, to their credit,
have been
stuck with this, a few others,
Ben Sasse.
But most seem to be, just
whatever Donald
Trump wants on foreign policy,
they are going
to do.
They have abandoned their
beliefs.
And I think they're going to pay
a price for
that.
We, the country, will a pay a
price substantively,
and they will pay a price
politically.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Quite a
remarkable display
of public, strong feelings in
that march on
Saturday.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: I was at the New
York for three-and-a-half-hours.
It was exhilarating.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Many people say
they haven't
seen in a long time from the
Democratic Party.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But where do
Democrats go from
here?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: OK.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That was one day.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where do you go
from here?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Well, but to say
on the second
day, there should be a whole
plan and everyone
is going to be marching to the
polls in 2018,
which would be the right thing
to do, is a
little premature.
But the fact that there is such
a depth of
feeling and worry about this new
president,
the fact that women feel on the
issues of
choice and on the issues of
Planned Parenthood
and even on the issues of the
Affordable Care
Act, which say women have to be
treated equally
to men, that he's not working
for them, that's
going to have a huge effect.
And I think that's going to help
us over the
-- not just in the elections in
2018 and 2020,
but over the next several
months.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you make
sure both that
you stand up for what you
believe in, but
you don't come across to the
American people
as just a battering ram of no,
no, no?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: That's exactly...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And including on
these confirmations?
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: It's a very
important question.
Stick to our values.
OK?
If you stick to your values,
then you will
be guided right.
That's what I have always done
throughout
my career.
So, we're not going to oppose
something because
the name Trump is on it just for
the sake
of opposition, as Mitch
McConnell did.
If he proposes a good
infrastructure plan
that meets our values, we will
work with him
on it.
If he wants to change the trade
laws in a
real way, we will work with him
on it.
But, at the same time, when he
tries to roll
over our values, repeal the
protections we
put for consumers and the
country against
Wall Street, repeal clean air
and clean water,
repeal health care and the ACA,
undo the help
and support we have given public
education,
we will fight him tooth and
nail.
And I think that's what the
country wants
us to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senate Minority
Leader Chuck
Schumer, thank you very much.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: Nice to see you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in one final
postscript,
after we were done, I asked the
minority leader
about his personal relationship
with President
Trump.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: He was saying to
me he was
my friend at the beginning.
Then he called me some names.
And what I have said is, either
isn't going
to affect me.
Flattering isn't going to affect
me.
Name-calling isn't going to
affect me.
I'm going to go by what is the
right thing
to do in terms of our values.
Well, I think both Democrats and
Republicans
have a lot of question marks
about his operating
style.
I'm worried.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As we said
earlier, there's
been plenty of news in the past
24 hours about
President Trump and his
businesses.
In fact, there are continuing
questions about
his pledge to separate from his
businesses
now that he's in the White
House.
William Brangham is here with
more.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That federal
lawsuit that
was filed earlier today alleges
that President
Trump is violating the
Emoluments Clause of
the Constitution.
That clause bars government
officials from
receiving certain types of gifts
from foreign
powers or governments.
As we heard, the president
called the suit
totally without merit.
In other developments, White
House spokesman
Sean Spicer said today the
president had resigned
from his businesses in full, as
he'd promised
to do.
There have been questions as to
whether that
had indeed happened, but, late
today, several
news organizations said they had
received
signed letters and filings
showing the process
had indeed begun.
Jonathan O'Connell is covering
all this for
The Washington Post, and he
joins me now.
Jonathan, let's start
specifically with this
lawsuit.
What is the argument that these
plaintiffs
are arguing?
JONATHAN O'CONNELL, The
Washington Post: Sure.
What they're taking aim at is
the Emoluments
Clause of the Constitution, as
you mentioned.
It's an obscure clause that
really no one
had paid much attention to until
recently.
What it does is, it bars the
president and
other federal officials from
receiving benefits
of any kind from foreign leaders
or foreign
officials.
And, unfortunately, there isn't
a lot of case
record in terms of courts really
breaking
that apart and explaining what
that might
mean, and the Supreme Court has
never addressed
it.
So, there is a wide view of
opinions on what
an emolument might mean, what
might qualify
as an emolument, and also what
as a violation of the Emoluments
Clause.
People are talking about some of
the businesses
that Mr. Trump has that receive
payments from
federal officials or foreign
governments,
or have -- receive interest
payments from
maybe foreign banks.
There are foreign buyers of his
condominiums.
There are foreign tenants or
foreign-owned
tenants of his buildings.
And Mr. Trump is trying to take
precautions
to separate himself from his
businesses as
much as he can, but retain
ownership of them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Help me
understand what
the concern is here.
Is it that, if I'm a foreign
government and
I am somehow putting money into
a Trump-related
organization, that that might
somehow curry
favor with the president?
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: Sure.
Yes, the original idea was to
avoid bribery
from occurring and make sure
that the president
and other officials were focused
on doing
the best thing for the nation.
And that core ideal is, I think,
at the center
of this initial lawsuit and the
other lawsuits
that could be to come, which is
out of a concern
that Mr. Trump will continue to
have some
allegiance to his businesses,
because he does
still own them and he would
still benefit
or profit from their doing well
at the same
time as he is president.
And there -- you know, he just
has -- he has
such a wide array of businesses
that he started,
to think about all the various
conflicts that
he could have in the various
parts of the
federal government that he will
oversee, it
is going to take quite a bit of
unwinding.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: China is one
of the examples
that is often cited when we talk
about this
clause.
China rents space in Trump
Tower.
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: Sure.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A Chinese
government bank,
I know, loans money for a
Trump-related project.
What is it that the people who
are bringing
the suit want the Trump
Organization to do?
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: I think
there is a couple
different motives for a suit
like this.
One is, if you can get far
enough along down
the line in a lawsuit, you can
get to the
discovery phase, as any attorney
would know,
and that's when you sort of get
to learn much
more about what the opposing
party has at
stake here.
And then, you know, maybe they
can unearth
some of Mr. Trump's financials.
Maybe they could even unearth
his tax returns.
Some of this might be a long
shot, but there
are probably a number of groups
that are going
to try to take a shot at this.
And, as I mentioned, with all
the businesses
that he has, and you mentioned
some of the
Chinese interests, there's a
number of opportunities
and courts at which different
parties could
take a shot at him this way.
And, for instance, he has many
hotels in the
United States, some of which he
owns and some
of which he has licensing
agreements on, and
if a foreign government wanted
to say, you
know, say they're going to do
him a favor
and rent out the entire hotel
for a weekend
and give his company thousands
or tens of
thousands of dollars that way,
there is nothing
preventing them from doing that
now.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
president's lawyers
and some other legal scholars
have looked
at this and said booking a hotel
is really
not the same as giving a sack
full of cash
to the president, because the
money is going
to a corporation, not to the
president himself.
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: Sure.
I mean, again, there's a number
of interpretations
here.
One is, from a president's
lawyer you saw,
if somebody's paying market rate
for a hotel
room, that doesn't feel like a
gift to a lot
of people.
And maybe it would not be
considered a gift
under the Constitution.
On the other hand, if you look
at an emolument
as any kind of a benefit, any
kind of a payment
that the president receives from
a foreign
entity, then even if one is
paying market
rate for a hotel room, that's
still a benefit
to him and to his company.
Now, Mr. Trump has also said
that he will
be donating any profits from
foreign clients
or foreign business to the
United States treasury,
but think about the difficulty
of that if
you own or operate a hotel
company.
The hotel staff would then have
to distinguish
between the payments that are
from foreign
entities or foreign guests and
everybody else,
and then divvy it up and send a
check to the
Treasury.
And Mr. Trump and his attorneys
have not explained
any of the logistics of how that
would work.
Or -- he has also mentioned that
he has closed
down a number of business deals
in order to
insulate himself from his
businesses, but
he hasn't disclosed what any of
those deals
are either.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The president,
in part to
disentangle some of these
things, as you have
said, has said that he's going
to resign from
his companies.
There seems to be some evidence
that he's
making steps to do that.
I know that a lot of ethics
lawyers have looked
at what he's proposed to do and
say it's insufficient.
What do they argue the president
needs to
do?
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: I mean, the
ultimate ideal
from the ethics experts and a
thing that a
number of presidents have done
before Mr.
Trump is to put their assets
into a blind
trust.
And a blind trust, the terms
gets thrown around
quite a bit, but essentially it
is an independently
operated entity that would
liquidate all of
Mr. Trump's assets.
Now, that's not an easy thing to
do with real
estate.
It's not ideal to sell real
estate when your
hand is forced, because it's a
cyclical business.
And I think there's probably a
reasonable
way for Mr. Trump's company to
retain ownership
of his hotel and other
properties.
But if he doesn't do more than
what he's doing
in terms of taking himself and
his ownership
out of these companies, these
questions are
going to continue coming up, I
would imagine,
for his entire presidency.
He owns so many businesses.
They're so prominent, in terms
of golf and
hotel and products, that I can't
imagine this
will away if he continues to own
them all.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Jonathan O'Connell
of The Washington Post, thank
you very much.
JONATHAN O'CONNELL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": our
Politics
Monday team analyzes the
president's first
days in office; and Europe's far
right hoping
to ride a wave of populism.
But first: The new White House
press secretary
stepped in to the spotlight over
the weekend,
scolding the press, but was
later called to
account for his own false
statements.
Lisa Desjardins has the story.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
I believe that we have to be
honest with the
American people.
I think sometimes we can
disagree with the
facts.
LISA DESJARDINS: He was notably
less heated
in tone, but today White House
Press Secretary
Sean Spicer's message was
unchanged: The Trump
White House feels the press is
unfair.
SEAN SPICER: Over and over
again, there is
this attempt to go after this
president and
say, well, that can't be true
and that's not
right, and the numbers weren't
there, and
there's a rush to judgment every
time.
And it's a two-way street.
We want to have a healthy and
open dialogue
with the press corps and with
the American
people about what he's doing to
help this
country and to unite it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Today's
briefing follows
a tumultuous weekend, starting
with President
Trump's words about the media
Saturday in
front of the CIA's Memorial
Wall.
DONALD TRUMP (R), President of
the United
States: They are among the most
dishonest
human beings on Earth.
(LAUGHTER)
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: Right?
And they sort of made it sound
like I had
a feud with the intelligence
community.
And just want to let you know,
there's a reason
you're the number one stop.
It is exactly the opposite.
LISA DESJARDINS: In fact, two
weeks ago, the
president did tweet about
intelligence agencies,
asking: "Are we living in Nazi
Germany?"
Today, Press Secretary Spicer
said that was
about the process, not
intelligence workers.
Also sparking conflict, the size
of the crowd
at Mr. Trump's inauguration.
Many news organizations
published side-by-side
photos showing the Obama 2009
turnout was
larger than this year's.
That's where White House Spicer
picked up
Saturday evening.
SEAN SPICER: This was the
largest audience
to ever witness an inauguration,
period, both
in person and around the globe.
LISA DESJARDINS: Today, Spicer
clarified,
saying he was including
in-person, plus television
and online viewers.
SEAN SPICER: It's
unquestionable.
I don't -- and I don't see any
numbers that
dispute that.
LISA DESJARDINS: On Saturday,
Spicer also
correctly pointed out that a
reporter had
wrongly blasted out news that a
bust of Martin
Luther King Jr. had been removed
from the
Oval Office.
But the greater question was
about how the
Trump administration views facts
and the free
press.
Trump aide Kellyanne Conway made
headlines
when pressed by Chuck Todd on
NBC's "Meet
the Press" yesterday.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Senior
Adviser: Don't
be so overly dramatic about it,
Chuck.
What it -- you're saying it's a
falsehood,
and they're giving -- Sean
Spicer, our press
secretary, gave alternative
facts to that.
CHUCK TODD, Moderator, "Meet The
Press": Look,
alternative facts are not facts.
They're falsehoods.
LISA DESJARDINS: And on "FOX
News Sunday,"
President Trump's chief of staff
issued a
warning.
REINCE PRIEBUS, Incoming White
House Chief
Of Staff: I'm saying there's an
obsession
by the media to delegitimize
this president,
and we are not going to sit
around and let
it happen.
We're going to fight back tooth
and nail every
day.
LISA DESJARDINS: All this
follows a presidential
campaign in which Mr. Trump's
rhetoric often
targeted journalists.
DONALD TRUMP: The election is
being rigged
by corrupt media pushing false
allegations
and outright lies in an effort
to elect Hillary
Clinton president.
(BOOING)
DONALD TRUMP: But we are going
to stop it.
LISA DESJARDINS: As it pushes
back at the
media, the Trump team is also
opening up a
few new seats.
Spicer announced the Briefing
Room will have
four Skype seats to bring in
questions from
reporters outside Washington.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We take a deeper
look now at
the Trump administration's
relationship with
the press and the latest policy
moves from
President Trump in this week's
Politics Monday,
with our regulars, Tamara Keith
of NPR and
Amy Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
And we're joined tonight by Jeff
Mason of
Reuters.
He's the current president of
the White House
Correspondents Association.
And we welcome all three of you
to the program.
Jeff Mason, I'm going to start
with you, since
you're standing out there in the
cold.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have been
covering this
White House for eight years.
And I know there were
contentious times during
the Obama administration between
the press
and the president and the people
around him,
but how do you compare to what's
happened
in the last few days under
President Trump?
JEFF MASON, Reuters: Well, it
was certainly
unusual on Saturday to have the
president
of the United States to talk
about the media
being the most dishonest people
on Earth,
and that followed up by the clip
and the statement
that you showed already by Sean
Spicer in
the Briefing Room.
So, that is -- I can't really
think of anything
that would compare to that
during my time
at the White House.
That said, today, in the first
full day at
-- first working day, I guess,
this Monday,
the press has had pretty decent
access at
the White House.
There were several pool sprays
in which we
got to see the president do
things and hear
him make statements.
And then Sean Spicer of course
held his briefing
and took questions for over an
hour.
So, those are positive steps.
But the tension over the weekend
was unusual,
and certainly not how I expected
to see them
start.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara Keith, as
somebody who
has also covered the White
House, is this
all forgotten now because things
went well
today?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: No, not
necessarily.
I think that, when a trust is
betrayed, that
has to be rebuilt.
And Sean Spicer came into the
Briefing Room,
stood at that podium and at that
lectern and
said things that were verifiably
untrue.
He apologized today at the
briefing -- or
at least said that he doesn't
intentionally
want to say things that aren't
true and that
he wants to have a good
relationship with
the press.
But it's a process that requires
some restoration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, as somebody
who watches
politicians and the press,
because you have
been -- that's what you do for a
living, how
does this look from the outside?
Are we making more of this than
there is here?
Because I know a lot of people
in the media
who are really upset about it.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: I think
that's a great question, Judy,
because, look,
the media loves to spend a lot
of time talking
about itself and do a lot of
navel-gazing,
which the general public isn't
quite that
interested in.
They aren't really particularly
concerned
with whether our feelings are
hurt or the
things that we complain about.
They have their own lives and
their own jobs
that are difficult as well.
What they expect from us is to
tell us what
has happened, is to tell them
what is happening
and what isn't happening.
And I think where the media has
gotten itself
in trouble, not just with the
people who support
Donald Trump, but just in the
broader frame
of reference -- remember, they
have an approval
rating that's almost as low as
Congress' approval
rating -- is the sense that
they're much more
interested in things like
parsing words and
getting into fights about little
minutia,
as opposed to stepping back and
seeing what
the big picture is.
And that's where I would argue
that the media
needs to spend much more time
going forward
is, focusing on what we know,
what we don't
know and then moving on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Jeff Mason,
that does put
the press in a somewhat
unsympathetic position,
doesn't it?
JEFF MASON: Yes, it's always
kind of a tricky
position to be in, when the
press isn't super
popular in this country either.
And that is something that we
have to take
seriously.
But, as I have been saying for
the last few
weeks, in light of some of this
tension that
we have had with the then
incoming and now
current administration, having
some tension
is normal, and it's our job to
report the
news, it's our job to report the
news accurately
and aggressively.
And I think if the press corps
continues to
do that, then we will be on the
right path.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, so, Tam, as
the media,
as all of us continue to look at
the relationship
with the press, there were some
substantive
things that happened at the
White House over
the last few days, these
executive orders.
What do they add up to?
I interviewed Senator Schumer
today.
He was fairly dismissive of it.
How did you read it?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, first, one
thing that
happened at the White House
today is that
President Trump did things that
a president
does.
He held meetings with people and
looked presidential.
He signed these three
presidential memoranda,
which is a perfectly normal and
expected thing
for a president to do when they
come into
office, including one that is
related to funding
of organizations that would
perform abortion
overseas.
That is like a ping-pong.
You know, President Reagan
started it, and
then President Clinton rolled it
back, and
then President Bush brought it
back, and then
President Obama rolled it back.
And so there -- these are, in
some ways, expected
things for a president to do.
The memoranda on hiring freezes,
that is not
unheard of.
And the TPP, that is sort of
like, as a colleague
of mine said, putting the
tombstone in front
of the grave that was dug about
a year ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, how much
of this -- this
is an administration that
promised to come
right out of the gate getting
things done.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
And so right of the gate, well,
the things
that they said on the campaign
trail, going
to get rid of Obamacare, we're
going to stop
these trade deals, they started
that by putting
these executive orders in place.
What we don't know is what that
leads to,
and especially on the Obamacare
executive
order.
Nobody, the insurance industry,
hospitals,
doctors, the people who are
signing people
up for Obamacare, know exactly
what that means.
So, this is going to be a
process that's put
into place.
But, overall, I think the Trump
administration
today did some substantive
things, but we
just don't know fundamentally
where they go.
The other thing that Donald
Trump got in his
favor today was the fact that
you had three
Republican senators who were
looking like
at one point they were holding
out on their
support for Rex Tillerson,
secretary of state
nominee, and all three came out
and publicly
supported him.
That's a big victory for Donald
Trump, because
to come in, in your very first
days in office,
and have your own party sink a
Cabinet nominee
would have been a big blow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to come
back to you
just quickly, Jeff Mason.
It was kind of a question that I
asked John
Yang, who was also at the White
House today
for us.
And that is, does it feel like
-- I know it's
only three or four days in, but
does it feel
like this Trump administration
is getting
its sea legs yet?
(LAUGHTER)
JEFF MASON: I think they are
still working
on that.
And I think they would probably
say the same
if they were standing here, if
anyone from
the administration were standing
here.
Certain things like speaking to
the press
over the loudspeaker are not
working.
They are telling us -- giving us
announcements
that way now so that the pool
knows when to
gather.
We are getting our daily
guidance at night
which shows what the president
will be doing
the next day.
That's taken a couple of days to
get into
a rhythm.
And that sort of applies to some
other things,
too.
But they're getting there, in
terms of figuring
out how the White House works
and how that
relationship with the press
works.
And we're getting there, too.
And it takes some adjustment on
both sides.
I guess the principle that I am
continuing
to push for and the
Correspondents Association
is continuing to push for is
that we have
access and that we are able to
see and witness
and chronicle what's going on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And all of that
is very important.
In the little bit of time we
have left, Tam
and Amy, I want to ask you about
this -- what
little bit of information now
has come out
about President Trump and his
business connections.
Is there a sense that he's put a
lot of that
aside now and away and there
aren't going
to be that many more questions?
Or how do you see that?
TAMARA KEITH: Oh, I don't think
that the questions
are going to go away, because of
the way that
he's putting it aside.
But NPR has gotten its hands on
documents
that show that he did transfer
the title of
president of his Trump
Organization to his
son.
So that is something.
But the good government people
and ethicists
and many concerned citizens have
-- this doesn't
allay those concerns.
And plus, again, over the
weekend, they confirmed
that they are not planning to
release his
tax returns any time soon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, I come
back to you
for 20 seconds.
How much does that matter to the
electorate,
to the American people?
AMY WALTER: It matters if it
matters.
I think we have got to keep
focused on the
most important thing, as voters
said going
into this election.
One, they wanted change.
Two, they want their economic
security to
be better, their personal lives
to be better.
How and what he does that
impacts those things
are going to be very important.
Obviously, these are issues that
are going
to continue to be surrounding
him, but getting
it back to what matters to
voters is going
to be the most important thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter,
Tamara Keith, Jeff
Mason, thank you all.
JEFF MASON: Pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One day after
Donald Trump
was inaugurated, European
right-wing leaders
issued a rallying cry for voters
to help them
upset the establishment in key
elections this
year in the Netherlands, France
and Germany.
Anti-immigration policies,
strong border controls
and disdain for the bureaucrats
of the European
Union binds together these
various groups.
They met in the German city of
Koblenz, led
by the French presidential
candidate Marine
Le Pen.
But as special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant
reports, the message of those
wanting to benefit
from the so-called Trump effect
is deepening
Europe's divisions.
MALCOLM BRABANT: It was a
triumphalist entrance
for politicians aspiring to
repeat Donald
Trump's unexpected success.
The controversial leader of
France's National
Front hopes to be propelled into
the presidency
this spring by her
anti-immigration stance
and promise of a Brexit-style
referendum on
French membership of the
European Union.
MARINE LE PEN, President,
National Front Party
(through translator): The very
first blow
to the old order, the one factor
that will
have the rest of Europe falling
like dominoes
is Brexit.
A sovereign people has decided
to get rid
of the powerful's argument, to
be able to
decide by itself on its own
fate.
(APPLAUSE)
MARINE LE PEN (through
translator): The second
blow wasn't far behind.
Trump's election as the United
States president
put the supporters of
neo-liberalism in even
greater difficulty.
MALCOLM BRABANT: On German soil,
Le Pen took
aim at the leader all
anti-immigrant parties
blame for Europe's refugee
crisis, Chancellor
Angela Merkel.
MARINE LE PEN (through
translator): Mrs. Merkel
is presented as a humanitarian
heroine.
(BOOING)
MARINE LE PEN (through
translator): If they
asked the Germans if they were
happy, everyone
would see that this migration
policy is a
daily catastrophe.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The crowd
chanted, "Merkel
must go," and lapped up the
speech by Geert
Wilders, a fervent critic of
Islam, leader
of Holland's Freedom Party, and
in contention
to be the next Dutch prime
minister.
GEERT WILDERS, Leader, Freedom
Party (through
translator): A new America,
today, Koblenz,
tomorrow, a new Europe.
MALCOLM BRABANT: At a packed
news conference,
he had these words for critics
of Europe's
right wing.
GEERT WILDERS: We will not stop.
The people will not stop.
Whether the old-fashioned
politicians or the
friends of the press like it or
not, it will
not be stopped.
The genie will not go back into
the bottle
again, whether you like it or
not.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Of all the
nationalist grouping
here, it is the Alternative for
Germany Party
which appears to be faltering,
although it
remains the third most popular
in the country.
After the Christmas market truck
massacre
in Berlin, there was a surge in
support.
But that appears to have been
temporary, as,
according to the latest opinion
polls, its
national approval numbers are
down to 11 percent.
And the reason for that appears
to be that
Chancellor Merkel's government
has promised
a new raft of security measures,
including
the fast deportation of criminal
refugees
and migrants.
Providing more workers for
Germany's powerhouse
economy was one of Merkel's
justifications
for her open door immigration
policy.
With elections looming this
autumn, Merkel's
Christian Democratic Union is
perceived as
having a steadier hand on the
tiller of prosperity
than the untested AFD, or
Alternative for
Germany Party.
At Koblenz's biggest monument,
the AFD's alleged
Nazi tendencies were satirized
with cardboard
cutouts of Second World War
dictators.
That impression was reinforced
after one of
its senior members said that
Germany should
abandon what he called its
shameful memories
about the Holocaust.
This might explain the subdued
speech of party
leader Frauke Petry on the banks
of the Rhine.
FRAUKE PETRY, Chair, Alternative
for Germany
Party (through translator): We
have to expose
those who call for a more
powerful European
Union as the true
anti-Europeans, the true
anti-democrats.
We have an answer to these
spineless technocrats.
And that answer is people and
politicians
who are going to take back
Europe and restore
its freedom and sovereignty.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The
right-wingers may be
hoping to benefit from the Trump
effect, but,
on Inauguration Day, most
customers in this
cafe were turning a blind eye.
The Koblenz gathering generated
two days of
protests.
History student Anna Khodorova:
ANNA KHODOROVA, Student: It kind
of reminds
me of the time when Hitler was
still alive,
because he used populism against
Jews, against
other discriminated groups of
people.
We have learned from history,
and I'm afraid
that this happens again also
when Trump becomes
president.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The next day,
outside the
conference center, a band played
the anthem
of the European Union, which the
nationalists
despise.
English teacher Herman Spix
fears that Europe
is backsliding into the darkest
period of
German history.
HERMAN SPIX, Teacher: I'm very,
very much
concerned, because I have been
working on
the issue of the Third Reich for
nearly 20
years.
This is -- in my sense, it is
comparable.
WOMAN: More and more people are
spreading
racism, sexism, and homophobe
sentiments or
whatever.
If they come into the
parliament, it will
be a big difference, because I
think we will
all be very astonished at what
they will do.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The police
erected a protective
ring around the conference
center.
Local AFD councillor Ulrich
Langenback rejected
accusations that they are Nazis
in suits.
ULRICH LANGENBACK, Councillor,
Alternative
for Germany Party: For me, they
are.
I will not use his word.
They are the fascists, because
it's only young
people.
So, they got brainwashed by
school and university.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Happy to
demonstrate their
enthusiasm in the dark, not so
many were prepared
to voice their opinions
publicly.
ULRICH LANGENBACK: Germany is
very weak.
You are not allowed to speak
openly.
You're -- always when you speak
if you are
in the AFD, you can worry about
your job.
MALCOLM BRABANT: These
nationalists hope that
hitching themselves to the Trump
bandwagon
will bring electoral success.
In order to symbolize unity,
they held their
conference where Germany's two
great rivers
meet.
But their message emphasized
growing divisions
within Europe, as the continent
steams deeper
into an unpredictable 2017.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Koblenz.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
of interest to you, too.
Every winter, millions of tons
of salt are
spread across the country's
roads and sidewalks.
Much of it comes Ohio's Whiskey
Island Salt
Mine.
Elizabeth Miller of WVIZ/PBS
ideastream in
Cleveland reports.
ELIZABETH MILLER: When old man
winter rears
his icy head, there's one thing
that keeps
Ohio from becoming a virtual
slip 'n slide:
salt.
A natural deicer, over 17
million tons of
rock salt was spread over roads
and sidewalks
in the United States during the
particularly
fierce winter of 2015.
But where does it all come from?
The answer might surprise you.
MAN: Right now, we are in the
Whiskey Island
Mine, 1,800 feet below Lake
Erie.
And we are mining salt for the
purposes of
road deicing.
Last year, we mined a little
over three million
tons in a pretty mild winter.
In a normal winter, we will do
about four
million tons a year.
ELIZABETH MILLER: Ohio is one of
the top exporters
of salt in the country, and it's
actually
mined right under our noses in
places like
Cargill's Whiskey Island Salt
Mine.
The 12-square-mile mine lies
just offshore
of downtown Cleveland.
MAN: Once we blast the salt out
of the ground,
we got ahead and scoop it up and
put it on
the belt lines to be sent to the
mill for
processing.
ELIZABETH MILLER: A system of
conveyor belts
and elevators bring the salt to
the surface.
Left behind are gigantic pillars
of salt.
These support the weight of the
thousands
of feet of rock and lake above
the mine.
But wait.
How did all this salt get here,
almost 2,000
feet under Lake Erie?
To answer that question, we
headed to Cleveland's
Museum of Natural History to
talk to expert
Harvey Webster.
HARVEY WEBSTER, Cleveland Museum
of Natural
History: We always think, you
know, Cleveland,
Ohio, has always been north of
the equator.
It's been in a temperate
location kind of
forever, right?
And the answer is no.
It turns out that North America,
like all
the other continents, has moved
across the
planet.
And at the time of the Silurian,
400 million
years ago, Cleveland, Ohio,
would have been
about 1,000 miles south of the
equator, in
shallow, tropical conditions.
ELIZABETH MILLER: So, Ohio was
tropical, oh,
yes, and covered in a shallow
sea.
And its inhabitants are not the
kind of thing
you see strolling in downtown
Cleveland today.
Eventually, these tropical
conditions and
some overgrown coral reefs
caused the sea
to dry up, leaving the salt
behind.
HARVEY WEBSTER: It would get
saltier and saltier
and saltier, until, finally, the
salt literally
settles right out of that water,
and forms
rock salt.
And this happened thousands,
tens of thousands
of times, and each time it
happened, it would
add a new layer to the rock
column.
And so, if you went to the
Cargill mine, when
you look at the walls, you will
see these
alternating bands.
Each one of those layers is like
a chapter
in the history of the world
right here in
Cleveland as it existed 400
million years
ago.
ELIZABETH MILLER: The salt mine
looks like
another world, and it really is
one.
It's the remains of world that
existed long
before man.
But even if you never get down
to the mine,
you will still see pieces of
this world scattered
on icy roads all winter long.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Elizabeth Miller
in Cleveland, Ohio.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And thank you,
Ohio, for your
salt.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.